tensions are soaring in the Middle East
after the leader of the pro-iranian
Hezbollah militia threatened a fight
with no rules if a broader conflict with
Israel breaks out in a televised address
Hezbollah leader Hassan nazala warned
that nowhere in Israel would be safe in
the event of an allout War he also
threatened to attack Cyprus if it opened
its airports and bases to Israeli
forces earlier Israel threatened to
destroy Hezbollah the Israeli Army and
Hezbollah have clashed almost daily
since the start of the war in Gaza in
October let's get the very latest from
our correspondent Tanya Kramer in
Jerusalem Tanya give us the very latest
if you can from
Israel well we've seen such crossb
attacks actually since October 7 the
terror attacks then and they have
escalated uh between uh hasah and Israel
in recent weeks now um they reach deeper
you know his follow attacks have reached
deeper inside Israel but also Israeli
attacks have reached deeper inside uh
Lebanon and then on Tuesday hasb has
published a video uh footage that shows
a 9 minutes long video that shows a um a
hia the northern Israeli city a major
city there in the north and showing uh
sensitive sides such as the port uh such
as residential areas and other uh sides
and in in very much detailed
of this city and that is basically as
seen here as a message by hollah we can
reach everywhere and that is of great
concern uh to Israelis that something
like that could actually happen and of
course rcks uh went up again after that
we heard the foreign uh Minister Israel
Cuts saying uh the time is close to a
decision that there could be an allout
war and now we heard of course Hassan
nzala also speaking uh from Lebanon that
Hezbollah could reach anywhere now such
resurrect is not something new uh
between Hezbollah and Israel but it
comes at this particular time it's very
much uh a very tense time here between
uh Hezbollah and Israel and of course um
uh in Israel adding to that you know
since October 7 tens of thousands of
Israelis have been relocated from the
border areas there simple ghost towns in
in Northern Israel and that's something
Israel cannot live with uh uh for the
long term there have been uh diplomatic
of course uh um attempts we had seen uh
on Monday and Tuesday the US enoy amamos
Hawkin uh he was in the region Israel
and in leanon trying to diffuse uh the
tensions but also uh we've been hearing
from Israeli officials they would be
favoring a diplomatic solution but at
the same time we've been hearing also
very strong calls here in recent weeks
uh that if such a diplomatic solution
could not be reached uh the the only
solution would be a military Invasion or
military solution to this problem Tanya
Kramer with that update for us from
Jerusalem thank you so much as
always and let's get some analysis with
military expert Marina from Kings
College London Marina good to see you
given these events of the past few days
How
likely is a war between Israel and
Hezbollah good evening well what we're
seeing right now is the height of the
tensions between is Israel and Hezbollah
especially after the appearance of the
Drone footage which made Israel feel
more vulnerable it is not known whe when
that footage was recorded however it
shows that hasah has the ability to
penetrate Israeli defenses and might
reach its um critical infrastructure
meaning that Israel is feeling now a
strategic vulnerability and wants to
preempt any potential war with Hezbollah
but is it a good time for Israel to
commit to a new war and open a new front
is questionable and I think it will
depend a lot on outside players who
might try and help mediate some sort of
agreement in order to avoid expanding
this war towards Lebanon well Marina
that very much goes to my next question
Israel of of course uh fighting the war
in Gaza if if this does turn into a war
it would mean fighting on two fronts
what would that mean from Israel's
perspective I think it's going to be
very difficult for Israel firstly we
have to understand that both Hamas and
Hezbollah have adjusted their mod ofandi
they have improved their technological
skills and specifically Hezbollah it's
one of the best AR non-state actors up
to date this means that it will be not
as easy or it hasn't been easy for
Israel to face Hamas and Gaza it will be
even more difficult for the IDF to face
the hasah fighters on their own turf and
some reports estimate that hasah has
some 100,000 Fighters Hezbollah also
receives support from Iran so it's quite
a powerful force we have to understand
that and we have to understand that the
Israeli military is now also being
exhausted from its operations in Gaza
it's not ending and opening another
front in the north fighting in Lebanon
might not bring about the desired
results I don't think that the military
is a correct tool here to look for a
solution to a political problem we
spoken about Hezbollah as a well-armed
non-state actor but but what about
Lebanon and the Lebanese government is
it possible to say how they would factor
in
here well it is possible that the
Lebanese armed forces would provide some
sort of support because um they are at
odds with Hezbollah and they have been
for many years and the United States has
been providing help to the Lebanese
Armed Forces however I don't think that
they play a they can play a major role
in this equation in in terms of their
military capabilities therefore I don't
think that we should um count on the
fact that the Israeli IDF will be
closely coordinating their operations
with with the Lebanese Armed
Forces Marina thank you as always that
is military expert at Marina
let's get a view from Lebanon with
bran shata host of the podcast the
Beirut banan which deals with modern
Lebanese history a warm welcome to you
Hezbollah and Israel have been trading
almost daily fire since October as we've
heard how much do you fear that the
situation could escalate now and and
tell us a little bit about
why in my assessment that this is
cautious escalation from October 8th
until today even with the Bluster coming
from both sides of the Border whether
it's the Israeli foreign minister who
threatens regularly to take Lebanon back
to the Stone Age or whether it's
Hass threatening Cyprus in my opinion I
think this is still a measure of
psychological warfare and escalation but
in terms of the tit fortat fighting that
is happening at the moment there is a
military escalation that is reminiscent
a bit of July 2006 but it has not
degenerated to the point of allout
War so tell us how strong Hezbollah is
in Lebanon and and who there is really
in
charge that's actually a great question
um has is many things at once first and
foremost it is Iran's Shadow Army based
in Lebanon and it is a guaran of Iran's
security interests in Lebanon and in the
region it is also a Lebanese political
party with a Lebanese base and it plays
by Lebanese rules in terms of domestic
politics meaning has concerns and those
concerns can be shared by other Lebanese
parties but its priorities at the moment
in terms of War are to make sure Iran
gets what it needs from this round of
War and the reason I'm taking the
conversation directly to
Iran is because unlike hasah in terms of
its earlier career in Lebanese history
on the
battlefield is hasbalah is playing by
rules that are probably best defined as
cautious
pragmatic and not seeking full out War
which only proves one issue which is
that Iran at the point of time right now
still does not want a regional war that
includes this is a group that has been a
very very carefully uh owned machine for
the last four decades and it is still
the crown jewel of Iran's security needs
and I do not think Iran is willing to
risk or expose
to further danger and do you think that
would change should we say see Israel
launch a military operation against
Hezbollah in southern
Lebanon if the Israelis were to consider
crossing the blue line which is the deao
border between Lebanon and Israel it
means that we are expecting a long term
War but I do not think that means full
out War meaning it is hard to imagine
the Israelis reverting to 2006 when they
bombed Lebanon relentlessly for 34 days
and that included infrastructure
institutions failed and the Lebanese
State paid an immense price and I don't
think the Israelis will ever seek
something like 1982 when they laid Siege
to Beirut in the summer of 1982 over
10,000 Lebanese were killed that summer
as Ariel Chiron sought to dislodge yeser
Arif from this country it is very
difficult to see that happening but that
said there's something very different
from today than 2006 which is that the
Lebanese government today is playing no
rule in 2006 there was a fledgling post
Syrian occupation government that was
trying to reclaim a semblance of
Lebanese sovereignty and actually
negotiate with hasbalah and bring them
to un Security Council resolution 1701
that is a Lebanese crafted Security
Council resolution and that's 18 years
ago today the Lebanese government is
absent from diplomacy and that is a
striking difference because now you have
diplomats that visit this country and
speak to politicians that Pander to
hasah rather than trying to create a
form of stability that's good for
Lebanon and not good for
Iran well thank you so much for your
time and that analysis that Isani Chata
in
Lebanon my pleasure